welcome everyone I'm Deronda with foods
101 and today I'm going to show you how
to make this classic meatloaf it's a
favorite for anyone that I know that
loves meatloaf to get this started
you're going to need two pounds of
ground chuck this is just something you
can buy in your meat department at the
grocery store
I prefer ground chuck because it has
your less fat you're going to need 1 cup
of ketchup 2 tablespoons of brown sugar
1 shallot that I have minced finely 2
teaspoons of kosher salt 1/2 cup of
minced red onions that I've also chopped
very finely this is the Wurster sure
sauce this is 2 tablespoons I have 1/2
cup of oatmeal 1 egg this is 1 teaspoon
of thyme and 1/2 a teaspoon of black
pepper all right now to our meat we're
going to make this very simple
you're gonna add the oatmeal the worst
your Sur sauce sometimes that's hard to
say the onions
mmm the salt shallots 1 egg the time and
pepper now to this we're gonna add half
the ketchup the other half we're gonna
add to the top of our meatloaf once we
get it in the shape we desire before
baking so I'm just going to use this
about half of that and now you're gonna
combine these ingredients well in with
your meat okay now if you'd like you can
get in there with a your hands but now I
just prefer using a wooden spoon and
trying to get this all mixed in you want
to spend about 3 or 4 minutes on this
and I'll come back and show you what it
looks like I've got the check
beef combined with the
ingredients and here in a 13 by 9 inch
porcelain pan now it doesn't need to be
porcelain but I like the size of the 13
by 9 I've lined it with parchment paper
here's our meet where we've got all the
other ingredients will incorporated and
I'm just gonna put it right here in our
baking dish and I'm using my hands and
I'm making the shape of our traditional
meatloaf just see parchment paper it
makes it so much easier to clean up
after you bake this scrumptious piece of
entree here you know here in America we
love meatloaf with mashed potatoes green
beans corn and then we love the leftover
meatloaf to slice and put on pieces of
bread and have meatloaf sandwiches meat
lips always delicious leftover so I like
the shape of this meatloaf now we're
gonna take that leftover ketchup we're
gonna add our two tablespoons of brown
sugar and you're just going to combine
these two ingredients very well and also
you want to make sure you've got your
oven preheating to 375 degrees
Fahrenheit now once we have those
ingredients together
I'm just gonna add right here onto the
top and spread it all around oh this is
ready to go in the oven for the next 55
minutes to one hour and we're gonna put
this on the top rack and on the bottom
rack I've got a baking dish here that is
going to bake along with our meatloaf
that way it'll keep the meatloaf nice
and moist and they'll keep the top from
cracking so I'll show you how I do it
once I put it in the image now you can
see how I've got the meatloaf on the top
rack and I've got a pan of water here on
the bottom now it's time to close the
oven door and bake this for the next 55
minutes to 1 hour here's our delicious
baked meatloaf just get it out
the oven oh my goodness I'll let it sit
for about 15 minutes cut into it and
tell you what it tastes like time to
give this a try oh yeah
look how moist it is and it's got that
ketchup and that brown sugar there on
top
mmm just like a classic mmm meatloaf
mmm with the onions in there and the
time is coming through with that sugar
in the ketchup on the tomato base this
is absolutely delicious hey y'all hope
you give this a try
I'm Durrani with foods 101 and I'll
catch you next time